---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: USA Day 14
categories: ['travel']
tags: [ 'USA_2016_diary']
---

## Thursday 24th 2015  

First day at the Disneyland park so we were all pretty excited.
We rang mum in the late afternoon as it was already Christmas there.
Magic Kingdom is magical if it were not for the crowds which really seem to be out of control, but as we discover later the crowds today are not actually that bad. We did Star Tours first up which is a 3D motion simulation where the seats move in conjunction with the scene, we have done this before in Disneyworld and it is one of Jack and mine favorites. You are propelled through space and through various starship battles above the planet Coruscant, plunging into the oceans of Naboo. You enter the massive Death Star to escape Darth Vader before doing battle with Boba Fett.
We then went to Indiana Jones ride where you board whats called a EMV an Enhanced Motion Vehicle which is like a military troop vehicle, this ride is based on the Temple of the Forbidden Eye which is set in 1935 and is very realistic and so much fun. You have to be lucky to even get a ride on this as it is one of the most popular attractions and even fast passes sell out which means that you need to get there in early hours to guarantee a ride, the wait time at 11am was about 120 minutes and there were thousands of people lined up waiting. Next was the River Boat Cruise which is also at Disneyworld and really hasn't changed much since we went in 1980, however this time there were christmas decorations over the displays etc which was a nice change and added to the experience.
We also went on the Pirates of the Caribbean ride which is also good but seemed to be less exciting this time round as it is a slow ride with antiquated animatronics when compared to many of the other newer rides but it is still worth seeing and if the crowds are anything to go by then this is another very popular ride where you miss out if you are not prepared to either go early or line up for hours. Tom Sawyers Treehouse was next and this is slightly different to Disneyworld but very good, it is just walk up a massive tree where you get to see old style displays setup in the Tom Sawyer period, there were no crowds for this so we went straight in. Up next is one of our favorite rides called the Haunted Mansion, this is always so much fun although not a fast paced ride but the animatronics and electronic displays are awesome and especially at Christmas time where they are all themed to christmas and it looks so good. It is very hard to take photos though as the ride cars are constantly moving and with so little light it is very difficult to get a good photo as now flash is allowed. We got some cool BB-8 star wars cups for Jack and Lilia.

We had a rest back at the hotel room for a short while then hit the other park called California's Adventure Park where Jack and I did the Screamer Roller Coaster the worlds longest roller coaster this was heaps of fun. Then as a family we all did the massive Ferris Wheel, then tried to do some other rides which were all sold out, so we had dinner at Flo's Cafe which is part of Cars land, Lilia had Mac n Cheese, Jack had chicken strips, I had spare ribs and Wendy had something but I forget what it was.
We then watched the Pixar parade which lasts for about 20 minutes and fortunately the kids and Wendy had good spots to view it nice and close without anyone in front to stop the kids from seeing, I joined in a little later as there was very limited space. It was time to head back to the hotel to get to sleep as we will be up at 6am to yet again take advantage of the early hour guests get.
