---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: USA Day 12
categories: ['travel']
tags: [ 'USA 2016 diary']
---

## Tuesday 22nd 2015
We started off having an early breaky at Wawona Hotel but it was pretty funny as they offered a free continental breaky which consisted of a tiny bow of granola, no more than 3 spoonfuls and a slightly bigger bowl of fruit, as well 2 pieces of cake and a tiny little muffin. They also offered a paid breakfast which we had to opt for as the free serving would not have even hit the sides. I chose pancakes with bacon, and I got 2 small pancakes and 2 slices of bacon, Wendy and Jack had a kids serving of pancakes at half the price of my dish and they got 3 pancakes each??? Seemed a little strange but I end up having their leftovers so all turned out ok. It was so funny seeing the little bowl of granola though so we took a photo as it was the smallest bowl I had ever seen, looked like it was from a dolls house. We were getting to leave the hotel and planned to have some more snow play at a place no too far way on an off road snow covered track about a mile from the hotel.
Jack wasn't keen on the sledding as he had hurt himself yesterday when playing in the snow, but Lilia and I had heaps of sled runs which was so much fun. We couldn't stay any longer as it was pretty tough playing in the snow as it's difficult to walk up the hills so many times. The only way in and out was via a very narrow single car width plus a little, and on the way in it was ok as we still had the chains on thank goodness otherwise we would have been in strife, however on the way out we had 2 cars approaching and needless to say it was a very tight squeeze where we both had to go right on the edge of the road and I even had to fold in the side mirrors to fit past them. When we got to the entrance we took the chains off as it's quite difficult driving with chains on a non snow/icy road.
We were now driving to Bakersfield via Fresno. We stopped in at Oakhurst, the same place we went for dinner last night to look at Thrift Shops, our equivalent is the Opportunity Shop, although these shops were massive and we could have spent a lot longer in each one. I bought this great Levi's jacket. We also donated our tire chains to then along with our snow gear which we had no use for any more. After an hour or so we arrive in Fresno and planned on seeing more Thrift Shops. We went to 3 or 4 which were directly beside one an other.
Now onto Bakersfield. Along the way I needed to get some coffee as I was getting pretty drowsy whilst driving and we pulled into a little service station which wasn't particularly close to anything and believe it or not the attendant was from Bankstown so we had a very quick chat and were back on our way. It was no more than 90 minutes drive to Bakersfield and once getting out of Fresno the weather started to clear up, the rain stopped and it was now quite warm, but the snow gear was now way to hot to keep on. We have changed plans slightly and cancelled our pre booked accommodation and needed to find somewhere to stay just from looking around. Just as we decided to pull off the freeway I noticed a Lincoln Car Dealership and I just had to stop by to get a brochure on the Lincoln Navigator car that I have been driving for a week or more, not sure if I mentioned how much I love this car but it never skipped a beat despite being through desert dust storms and snow and ice. We finally found the car yard and I did get my brochure, the car in US dollars is about 80k.

Whilst I was in talking to the dealership Wendy looked up a nearby hotel and we were soon heading towards Vagabond Inn. The place is pretty decent at about ¼ the price of the hotels so far and was within walking distance of Walmart and Starbucks. We will be returning our first set of tire chains tomorrow which we were the wrong size. We had our room which finally had WiFi which made the kids happy. We wandered over to the shops to check about the refund process and grabbed a coffee and stopped by gamestop for Jack, not too much later we were back in our room getting ready to settle in for the night. Unfortunately the WiFi didn't work and the bath had no plug which was pretty common for some unknown reason. Later on I went and bought a plug and a few other things from Walmart.

Tomorrow Jack and I will spend the day at Magic Mountain 6 Flags which is a famous theme park whilst Wendy and Lilia will do some shopping after which they will pick us up.
