---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: USA Day 10
categories: ['travel']
tags: [ 'USA_2016_diary']
---
## Sunday 20th 2015  
Up at 4:30am but too dark and too scary to do my normal routine of going to take early morning photos or at least a walk, not that I ever saw a bear but the risk was too great so I read some of the many books I have already bought, only 9. The rest of the family woke at around 8am and we went up to get breaky.
Wendy and I had pancakes and I also had eggs and bacon, it wasn't too bad and filled us up ready for a big day. The top of the priorities was to hike to Mirror Lake. This was a very short drive to where the hike starts and would be about 4 miles hiking all up. Along the way we saw a huge male deer, called a buck or a stag, whilst the females without antlers are called does. I approached it within 200 feet to get as close a photo as possible but surprisingly the dear is the only animal to have caused a death in Yosemite due to their unpredictable nature. Here I was thinking that they looked so calm and approachable but this is not the case and the are many more warnings about the dangers of deer than of bears. We continued along the snow covered icy path and were in awe at the surrounding as everything looks so pristine but there is little sign of any animals which I was hoping for. We finally made it to the Mirror Lake area and it was quite a hike mostly uphill but so worthwhile. The lake is mostly frozen over which obviously reduces the reflections but there is the Merced river still flowing. The were parts where the ice was frozen rock solid and you could walk on the lake, however great caution is required as one small mishap can mean a fatality due to the extreme temperature of the water underneath. I made sure it was safe and really only wanted to get a low perspective for a photo and I was not encouraging the kids to do the same. It is about 4 degrees today but doesn't actually feel it, perhaps due to the warm clothing we have on. There was a TV crew filming something or other but I needed to take the only chance I had for photos and enter into the view, they didn't seem to mind and I was as quick as possible. I was easily hooked and could have stayed just to take photos all day but there was a limit to what Wendy and the kids would allow so we had to compromise. So after about 35 minutes of shooting my panoramas we packed up and headed back.

It was nearing 11:30 and we had a tour of the famous Ahwahnee Lodge booked for 12:30 so had to get a wriggle on. We arrived to find no parking which wasn't uncommon but luckily we accidentally drove into a valet only parking area where a nice attendant was happy to let us out of the car in the middle of the road and park the car for us, this was great as we don't know what we would have done had their been no parking. This hotel was built in 1926 to cater to those that were not happy with the level of accommodation at Curry Village and the services available however you certainly pay for the privilege hence we still opted for Curry Village at well under half the price.

The place is a national landmark full of history and some very interesting stories, none of which i'll go into here but very worthwhile and I particularly enjoyed this tour. Funnily enough the tour guide was a young lady dressed in what appeared to be medieval attire and it looked a little out of place but I was really not aware of ladies dress styles of the early 1920's. The tour took somewhere near 1 hour and afterwards we needed to get some groceries from the local shops. We were planning a late lunch and early dinner today just to save on some time. But it's such shame that some of the people here can be so rude and unfriendly almost to the point where I felt like complaining but I held back as it would have gone against Australians in general and I just let is slide.

Later on we would go to Yosemite Lodge to eat and as usual it seemed that despite there being many choice to eat on this day there was just one option as all other areas had been closed including their cafe. Still no cappuccino and having to put up with the crappy black coffee they serve. Wendy and Jack had ordered a grilled chicken sandwich, Lilia ordered a small cheeseburger and I opted for a bacon cheeseburger all of which came with a basket of fires. However despite seeing a nice looking grilled sandwich being prepared on the grill Wendy and Jack both ended up with a burger instead, god only know why they choose to call everything a sandwich when you receive them as burgers. We really don't know what to ask for as we have tried every possible combination of request but always end up with a burger. The food was ok but the man served the fries and left them waiting for about 3 minutes before the rest of the food was served by this time the fries were pretty much stone cold and they couldn't be eaten. Oh well not much we can do. I also bought a roast beef roll for my midnight snack but guess what they call it, yep a sandwich yet again.

After filling up to the best we could we had a few more things to do including the Ansel Adams Photo Gallery, Visitor Center for a bookshop and some educational museum stuff as well as see a traditional indian village. It was nearly 4:30 and was already starting to get dark, they also shut most things on the dot of 5pm. I got 2 more books at the Yosemite Visitor Center which was a long way from the parking lot and it was raining but we made it in time. We then scooted over to the Gallery where I was very lucky to purchase a top quality tripod for my camera at the cost of half what I can buy it for in Australia, I needed this as I had bought along my tripod which was broken but I couldn't afford to but a new one before we left nor did I expect to get one whilst were were here. It is awesome. We tried to enter the Yosemite Museum but it was 5:01 and they closed the doors even though they saw us trying to open the doors they ignored us which I guess was their right to do so. We had just a few minutes to see the Indian village but it was now already dark and was still raining so it wasn't as good as it could have been on a dry day with light.

We headed back to the Curry Village and Lilia wanted to go ice skating again and I said I would take here whilst Wendy and Jack had a little downtime. Wendy also took care of washing and drying using the facilities which were about a mile away, luckily this time we could pick up the drying on the return trip from being out as it is a long walk from where we are.

It was about 5:45 and Lilia and I wandered over to skate but were told that we had to wait until 7:30 for the next session even though there were hardly anyone skating as it was still raining. We waited until 7:30 and went back and we both enjoyed skating for about an hour this time for the same cost but forgetting the cost Lilia loved it so it was fully worthwhile in my opinion.

Time to hit the sack after another great day in Yosemite. Still have not seen a bear, but we have see a couple of Coyote's and lots of deers plus many little furry squirrels.

# Only 5 days to Christmas now.

Tomorrow will be our last day I the valley as we will be heading back to LA for our Disneyland experience.


 Still very poor wireless and I just am not able to upload any photos despite trying many times and wasting over an hour, so i'm giving up until I can but in the meantime Wendy and Lilia are still posting to either Instagram and or Facebook.
