---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: USA Day 9
category: travel
tags: [ 'USA 2016 diary' ]
---

## Saturday 19th 2015  
# One week has already passed, just 5 more weeks to go.  
It is 5am and it is raining which suggests there may be some snowfall today.
We will drive through to Yosemite Valley and stay at Curry Village Lodge, in a cabin just like when I was younger 35 years ago. Ok so maybe not.

We took to the road pretty early and made our way to Yosemite, about 20 minutes before we got there we were looking at snow covered back country which was just incredible, we stopped and enjoyed the snow as it had really started to fall too not just the leftover snow from previous falls, none of us had ever seen anything like this. On the side of the road the snow would have been at least a foot deep and your feet sank straight to the bottom as it was just so soft, not to mention very cold. We were driving pretty slow at this point not that there was any ice to worry about but just to be extra safe as it was all a new driving experience for me. At the park entrance and we needed to put on the snow chains BUT the flaming women at Walmart sold us the wrong size, despite being so particular when buying them. So after the hardest 30 minutes ever trying to fit undersized chains to massive 20 inch tires I came to the conclusion they must be wrong as we just couldn't get them on. So after getting pretty wet and frozen we needed to drive back out of the park 5 miles and buy some more chains at $150 a pop it wasn't a very happy moment but we managed to get some more which were this time the correct size.
Upon returning to the park entrance it took Wendy and I about 10 minutes to fit the new chains onto the back wheels, they are certainly not easy to fit and takes a huge amount of strength to fit them and to secure them properly. We were now ready to drive in the snow safely. Surprisingly we were one of only a few cars which had chains which was very silly as the roads were covered in snow and ice and without the chains it would have been dangerous not only to ourselves but to others as well. The drive into the valley was incredible with gorgeous vista the whole way with sufficient stopping areas to take photos which was a very popular thing to do. There were the most awesome mountains with rocky outcrops opening up above the clouds and with views to the valley floor where the merced river was also visible. It was about a 40 minute drive mostly due to the reduced speed.

But our first stop was for a pre booked lunch at the Anawanhee Hotel which is a 5 star hotel built in 1927 and it is truly spectacular. Thankfully we had booked lunch only as the prices here are so expensive. At lunch time the cheapest meal was about $20 but if you had arranged for dinner time the prices would jump by 3 times that. A hotel room here is over $500 a night. The food was pretty good. Wendy had fetichine Alfredo which was a big serving and apparently very nice, whilst Lilia had a cheeseburger with all the extra chips and salad etc, Jack due to not feeling well still only had a small serving of chicken kababs and I enjoyed a meal of cheesesteaks which was served on a sandwich roll but nonetheless very tasty. Lilia had a little serving of ice cream and that was pretty much lunch done. It wasn't snowing in the valley as we had dropped in elevation enough for it to subside but the forecast was for more rain and snow in the following days. The place is nice but a little over priced in my opinion but they have the market covered as the only other 2 options for accommodation at either Yosemite Village or Curry Village are either too far away or the much cheaper dorm style rooms and restaurants.
We had originally booked in to stay at Curry Village and were expecting that we would get to stay in the small log cabin like I did many years ago however they had unfortunately suffered a wipe out by rock fall some years ago and all the remaining cabins were removed for safety, there is only one remaining now and to be honest it doesn't look the same as what I had remembered nor did it look like the photos we had from 1980. Anyway we tried to check in for which we were told would be possible despite being little earlier than normal and it would have been great as we were all cold and tired but it just wasn't to be, we had to wait until just before 5 pm until we could get our room key. I guess we had come to expect a certain level of accommodation and facilities and this place was lacking in every respect even thought it was still over $200 per night. There was no TV, no WIFI and no tea or coffee facilities, in addition to this there was just 1 place to eat where the dining room was all based on massive shared tables and chairs. I really wasn't impressed that you could hardly even find seats for a family. They had over ¾ of the dining lounge bordered off so we were stuck with a very ordinary dining experience but I guess we got to eat some food and soon after we had returned to our room. Now we had to get all our luggage from the car which was parked a long way away but the best available option. Part of signing in was to sign a waiver which removes the site owners from any liability due to bears attacking cars looking for food, so in other words if you don't remove every little piece of food and a bear manages to break in then it is solely our fault.
So I assume then if we do as we were told and remove all food items that a bear problem with the car would be there responsibility, I doubt that very much. But you know what we did despite Wendy checking very carefully that there were no loose lollies or any food in the car, we left a paper bag with fried chicken inside overnight, we got a big shock in the morning when we discovered this..but no bears tried to get it.

Lilia and Wendy went ice skating which was just 2 minutes from our room whilst Jack and I watched them. At $30 for 30 minutes it wasn't the best deal of the century. Lilia loved it and can't wait too do it again.
