---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: USA Day 8
category: travel
tags: [ 'USA 2016 diary' ]
---

## Friday 18th 2015

Up at 5am, out to take photos back indoors at 5:35am....way too cold. Ice is on the car and the snow is all around us and you can feel the cool in the air, it is very fresh but I wouldn't change anything as it is still a new experience that we all enjoy. Lilia is in absolute heaven and you would think that she was immune to the cold as she seems to be able to play in the snow without any regard for the temperature, but you can see she is having so much fun playing in the snow. The rest of the family woke about 7am and shortly thereafter we were ready to get some breaky at a little place just a few doors away. They have a $6.95 breakfast early bird special between 6 and 9. I ordered a tall stack of pancakes, Lilia had scrambled eggs with hash browns and bacon, Jack had a small serving of scrambled eggs as his tummy was causing him some grief and Wendy had what was called a sausage with scrambled eggs and hash browns. The food was great but we had to laugh as it took about 20 minutes to ask us for our drinks and we seemed to be just waiting and waiting for them to take our food order. We almost decided to just have drinks as it was just so unbearably slow. Eventually the man came and asked for our food order...how would you like your eggs?...how would you like your toast?...how would you like your potatoes? SO many questions for which we just took a guess as to what exactly they meant. In about another 20 minutes we had the food and the challenge was being set to see if I could actually eat all of what was served as the pancakes seemed to be so big, well surprisingly I did finish as I am seriously trying to put on some weight so I forced myself, plus it was a challenge. We paid the bill and went back to pack for our drive to Calavera Big Trees which would be a 10 minutes drive away.

The story here is that in 1852 a man named Augustus Dowd was chasing a grizzly bear ( which by the way have been extinct from the US for over 100 years – they have black bears only which are not even black ), and suddenly he was dumbfounded by this huge tree which he believed to be at least 3 times bigger than any he had previously seen. It was a 20 mile hike to the spot and in order to prove his story to the many disbelievers he had to persuade them to follow him back. Well within a week of the other party confirming the existance of the tree travelers started making the trek to see what became known as the Mammoth Tree which was considered to be the worlds largest tree. This species is known as Giant Sequoias. Within a year of the discovery of this tree early settlers has stripped the tree of its bark and decided to fell the tree. They used pump augers since there was no saw big enough and it took 5 men 22 days to drill the holes and another 7 days for the tree to fall. The stump was planed and was used as a dance floor whilst the fallen tree had a two lane bowling alley carved into it. John Muir who was famous for being a pioneer and a conservationist was far from impressed and started on the goal of saving the Giant Sequoias from the same fate. Today you can still see the drill marks used to fell this giant of a tree. Prior to felling the tree is was known as the discovery tree and stood at over 280 feet with a base diameter of 25 feet, it was thought to be young aged at just 1200 years old. It is now a very major tourist attraction and is just mind blowing the size of this thing, however it is now not considered the largest of all the trees. In a similar fashion there was another tree who was carved out to allow cars to drive through its base, however this was stopped in the late 1800's, I reckon it was because the cars would only just fit and perhaps became too big for the drive. Not only that the tree is nearly dead and has been slowly dying due to not having it protective bark layer. It is riddled with graffiti which is very disappointing but not unexpected.
The walk in the Grove is about 3 miles and being covered with soft snow was a beautiful walk around these majestic giants. In order to sustain the forrest they are burning off many trees which apparently is needed in order for rejuvenation. The fire cause the pine cones to open and spread their seeds which incidentally take about 100 years to mature. At the time we walked through the state park rangers were burning off and the smoke made for some very nice photos. Naturally I needed to buy a book and a patch for my collection which we did but strangely they were unable to answer some basic questions which is why I like to buy books so as I can answer my own questions, mainly when the driving through the tree was stopped. Other highlights were trees fallen for which you could actually walk inside and through the entire length of the tree, but this is where bears live although not in this particular tree of course.

This is a most beautiful place and especially in the winter.

We would now head to a place called Angels Camp, an historic gold mining town where we would see Star Wars at a small country cinema scheduled for a 3pm start. We had enough time to explore the area and stopped to get some groceries and the ate some lunch at a little park nearby.
There were a couple of thrift shops we looked in also one of which was a Cat Humane Society where they rescued cats and adopted them out, we got stuck patting the most beautiful cats for a while and wanted them all to come with us. There were also the most amazing antique shops which so many things that we could have bought but it is just not possible.

It was time for Star Wars now and we arrived a little early, got some popcorn and drinks and took our seats in a theatre which seemed to house no more than 100 people of which it was about ½ to ¾ full mostly of young school kids who must have gotten off school early to enjoy the opening event. The movie was just incredible but I was so tired that I kept dozing off, its lucky that we are planning to see it again in a few days at Disneyland on a big 3D screen for which i'll make sure I am wide awake.

After the movie it was about 5:30pm and it was already dark. We had about an hours drive to get to our next destination which would be on the outskirts of Yosemite where we had planned to stay at Yosemite Lodge. We stopped by Jamestown which is again another gold rush town which is renown for a hotel which is regarded as VERY haunted so much so that despite trying to book accommodation there they will not allow children to stay as it is too haunted. We were only able to take a few quick photos and needed to make tracks. We arrived at the Yosemite Lodge about 7pm and ordered a pizza to be delivered and all had a relatively early night.

Right outside our hotel room there is a bear warning sign but thankfully we are on the 2nd floor so feel a little safe that perhaps we would have being on the ground floor. Jack is particularly worried about the bears so this was another benefit.
