---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: USA Day 19
categories: ['travel']
tags: [ 'USA 2016 diary']
---

## Tuesday 29th 2015 - needs updating  

Up at 5:30 to get ready to leave Disneyland and LA, catching a Delta Flight 234 at 11:30 due to arrive at 7:30pm, 3 hours lost due to time difference.

Arriving at LAX the terminals were packed with people who were not just lines up inside but lined up along the streets outside the airport, we were not exactly sure if this was the case until we got amongst it and it definitely was for boarding various flights. We fortunately got pretty lucky and somehow avoided a massive queue by joining a small queue outside on the footpath which went fine and only took about 5 minutes.
The flight was at capacity so much so that we were restricted to having the normal amount of carry-on bags and had to leave 1 to go underneath, they will not charge for this as it is normally a charge per bag as it was somehow due to them not planning accordingly or something, but it really didn't matter other than the fact that it had our lollies for the flight in it so we had nothing for the flight.

The flight was very smooth but funny too as we had already travelled over 1 hour of our 4.5 hour flight before they offered us headphones to listen to the movies they suggested we watch. Many movies cost $6 but there were more than enough to choose from which were free. I was sitting next to Jack behind Mum and Lilia.
There was an Aussie guy from Woolongong next to me and we chatted about various things, he was a very nice guy and I tell you it was nice to speak to someone who was polite and well mannered, again not that everyone isn't just that certain things must be taken for granted such as courtesy where Aussies on the whole are a lot more polite and show a lot more courtesy. He was a uni student studying chemistry and had been in LA for about a week after saying goodbye to his parents he and his 2 brothers are continuing their trip in NYC. He was kind enough to grab our overhead bags for me as the plane was at capacity it was just so hard to move around and it was just a small plane too.
The plane arrived a little early which meant circling around for a while and then having a pretty long taxi period but it was good to land. Unfortunately NY was covered in fog so the view at night was limited.

Arrived at our hotel at about 10pm after staying to eat at the airport, again not just a grab and go moment where you think you can just get something quick to eat, you will loose ½ an hour and then be on your way again, this place took ½ an hour just to be served and have our order taken. After paying the bill which included choosing what tip you would leave them they then prepared your order. I choose to leave the highest tip with the assumption that if you tipped them any less that maybe you food would be delayed further. I was correct as we got our food before people who had ordered before us, despite the high tip they forgot 1 complete meal.

In bed at 12 after a walk around Rockafella area, we tried to go to the lego store but it was closed.
