---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: USA Day 2
category: travel
tags: [ 'USA 2016 diary' ]
---

## Posts from Thursday 10 & Friday 11th

Reposting Blog as phone posting has limits i was previously unaware of, I will likely stick to this format, which might mean that the update are much less frequent but will have far more content.
Same will happen with the bulk of my Photos but Lilia and Wendy are taking photos with their smart devices and occasionally will be able to upload to Instagram immediately, all dependant on WiFi and the phone service.  

### Thursday 10th December 2015
Arrived LA at 6:30am after a bit of a rough 13 hour flight. LA is cold and foggy.
Took an hour to get a shuttle finally and about 30 minutes later we arrived at the Travelodge just near LAX
The traffic is just crazy as we are only a very short distance from the airport but a long way from everything else. Our first stop was to go to American Girl which is about 30 minutes from the hotel.
At a place called The old farmers market, we got there about 11am. Whilst Lilia and Wendy went to their doll shop, jack and I walked around, we bought a hat each, typical tourist LA caps.
I have been struggling to get decent coffee, and from memory it was the same last time too, doesn't matter what kind of coffee but they all taste like crap. Even the cappuccino are crap.
Once we finished we caught another cab back to the hotel.
We all then caught a few hours sleep as we had a big night ahead of us which meant another late night.
At the Travelodge is a Denny's restaurant which we all love so that is nice. We got a few take away burgers to get some much needed food. I then went for a walk to take some photos but ended up getting lost and walked for like an hour to get back to where I had to be, funnily enough though I could see our hotl he whole time but ended up in this residential slum area which had just 2 entry point miles way from the hotel. I eventually got back with about 30 minutes to spare before we had to leave again.
Not the best timing but we had booked to go and see Cirque Du Soleil perform Curiosity which was being premiered tonight at the Dodgers Stadium. The stadium is just massive. We needed to catch another can but the driver will pick us up at 10:30pm which was nice to have pre arranged. Whilst waiting in line it started to rain, but fortunately they had some expensive merchandise, one being an umbrella so we took one and at least stayed dry. We also got a few other souvenirs as well.

The show was incredible especially because we had front row seats which put us right where the action was. Upon the intro they told the audience that photos were ok. So needless to say I was snapping away, 45 minutes into the show a lady came up and told Wendy to stop taking photos, then she told the lady next to me the same thing but never said anything to me. So I kept taking photos until some time later she told me to stop but I told her that we had been told it was ok, she then turned to me in a very un american tone and said well at least be discreet???? Why on earth they announce to the whole audience it was ok but then single out a few at the front. Anyway I end up getting 350 photos so I was happy with that. I wasn't even using flash but being so close allowed us to get the action shots which look great.

Our driver was great, they are all Mexicans in fact more than half of the population must be from there. He was there waiting for us and luckily the drive home was with no traffic to compete with so we got home in about 15minutes and all pretty much went straight to bed.

## Friday 11th December 2015  

Up at 7:30 to go and walk to the rental car place. Yet again I went the wrong way and was actually heading in completely the opposite direction from where I was supposed to be heading. I end up turning back after asking someone. I got to the car place at about 8:30 and after doing the paperwork was told to go a pick a car. We had pre ordered a RAV4, I end up sitting in 4 different cars before choosing a Dodge small SUV.

When I got back to the hotel we all took the bags to the car to load up BUT only 2 of the 4 big bags fitted in the car. After trying to at least get the bags in anyway possible and squashing Wendy and both kids into the back seats we went back to the car rental place to exchange for a bigger car.
I chose a Lincoln, big arse 4x4 which is just like those typical massing american muscle cars, this thing is amazing. It is so big that you really do feel like king of the road especially because it had so much power and was very luxurious. So I have decided what car I will be getting next.

We were now in the bigger car loaded and now ready to drive to Death Valley. Death Valley is the hottest place on earth, it rarely gets rain and usually gets smashed by huge sand storms.

We took about 4 hours to get there and stopped by Mojave where we stayed last time. E got some lunch at CarlJn's which have the best hamburgers ever and they had a Call Of Duty promotion to win instant prizes.( Call of Duty is a Playstation game of Jacks ).
The drive to Death Valley is quite beautiful, amazing vistas of the most colourful mountains. There was very little traffic and the car was quite capable of cruising at 140km/h up hills as well, just cruised the whole way.

We stopped at a place called Stovepipe creek, about 40 minutes before our final destination.
As we were approaching we could see the most amazing dust storm coming right into our path. It hit just as we stopped by a tourist centre to get a few supplies and some information.

It was the most bizarre thing to see the mountains completely disappear from all sides, couldn't see more that 30 meters. The was mixed with rain which naturally turned to mud. The locals suggested that they rarely get any rain and they said that the dust storms are common but they too didn't seem to like those kind of storms as the driving speed is reduced to an unbearable speed and takes ages to get past.

We got to Death Valley at about 4pm, it was a fair bit later than we had planned so there was no time for photos as it was starting to get dark.
We booked into a place called Furnace Creek Resort, 1 of only 2 places to stay in the area.
The place is very busy, it seems that have the most business as it was quite busy.
Once we settled in we walked up to the restaurant area where we had a good choose of places to eat, the only problem was that the first places we sat in didn't have something that everyone could enjoy so we moved to the next place and settled in for a nice meal. It was about 7:30pm now and was quite cold, but they have these awesome outside fires going which were very warm. Jack had fish and chips, Lilia had a hot dog, Wendy had Spaghetti Bolognese and I had fried chicken. The meals were good but too big for all of us. We went back to the hotel room and settled in for the night.

Well that didn't last too long as I decided I wanted to out and take some photos at night. The night sky is incredible, no city lights just the milky way in all it's glory.
Lilia came with me, it was about 10:30pm by now so we wouldn't be gone for long. We drove to a Place called the Golden Canyon and then onto Artists Drive. Along the way we saw a wild coyote which was one of the reason we like going out at night to spot wildlife. I couldn't get a photo though as my camera was mounted to a special tripod, but we did see him as I turned the car and pointed the high beams so we would get a good view.

I too about 5 photos only as they were very long exposures and it was pretty flaming cold, it has been down to -7 just in the last few days.

The night sky is amazing and I really don't think that it would be possible yo capture it on film like you do in real life. I tried but despite having long exposures it wasn't long enough so I will need to try agin another night.

We got back at just before midnight, Lilia went straight to sleep but I end up going for a walk to get some photos of some antique mining machinery.

We have very limited internet as we are in the middle of the desert and the phone service drops out or just doesn't work at all.

## Saturday 12th December 2015  

It's 1am not on Saturday the 12th Dec. We will drive to Pasadena tomorrow. I'll be up in about 4½ hours as I need to go out to take more photos, this time of the sunrise in the desert.

Having a great time but things will only get better on this amazing holiday.
