---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: USA Day 6 to Day 7
categories: ['travel']
tags: [ 'USA 2016 diary']
---
## Wednesday 16th 2015  

Today is out Alcatraz Island tour which departs at 8am.
Alcatraz was a short boat ride of about 15 minutes max and upon arrival we were given a short introduction to the island and the various parts we were allowed to explore freely.
This place has an amazing amount of history and perhaps the most amazing this is that as part of the Alcatraz staff is an ex convict called William Baker who served time here as prisoner #1249 in 1957, he is now 85 years old and says as part of his introduction that this is the first time he makes money by getting paid legally for selling his story as a book published last year. He was offering photos and signatures when you bought his book, which we did. He readily admits that he now forgets where he puts his teeth at night but has full recollection of his time spent at the rock.
We wandered around the island and enjoyed an audio tour of the prison cell block and took hundreds of photos. The Kids Loved this and it captured their attention for the whole tour. They say this is their favourate place and experience, we wont tell them they were learning. Access was naturally limited but sufficient to get a good understanding of how life was. The day was just perfect weather also a beautiful blue sky with little breeze. Last time we didn't get to go to the island due to time constraints but we remember very clearly how cold the wind was in March 2013 and we felt at that time it was far too cold to even stand and take a photo so we were very happy that the day allowed us some freedom from the bitter cold winds that hit the island more often than not.

We bought a whole swag of souvenirs and soon afterwards departed on the return boat and arrived back at the port around 12:30.
Our next stop is Pier 39 where we all enjoyed a game of Laser Tag, this is an interactive cinema where we are all seated watching a big screen with zombies all around which we were instructed to shoot to get points. It was no suprise that Jack was just 5 shots of getting the highest ever record whilst the rest of us lagged well behind in points. It was great fun and it was terrific that both Wendy and Lilia participated as they usually decline these kind of fun games.
The game only lasted about 5 minutes and we were soon at the next place to play a game where were were told that there was a room filled with laser beams pointing in all directions which needed to be dodged in order to get points, if a laser was triggered an alarm would go off and points would be lost, both Lilia and Jack were doing very well and both got placed on the days leaderboard. We each had planned to go as pairs but Wendy and I chose to let the kids do it twice each as we were not too fussed on missing this but the kids enjoyed it so much.

I forget what we had for lunch but there is a good bet it was hamburgers of some sort. (Wendy edit: It was seafood, Calamari, shrimp, chips etc, same place we ate from in 2013)

We will now ride the cable car ( aka streetcar ) to Union Square and do some shopping, get dinner somewhere.
Cable car was loads of fun, very steep ride up hill, got of at Lombard st to look at zig zag street, then on again and road out the back of the cable care which was great for pictures and a little local chit chat with the cable car driver.
Union square is a shopping haven with all the usual big names. Lilia bought some awesome red converse sneakers which are very popular and we will be looking for 2 more pairs on our travels for some lucky people back home. I also finally bought a pair of sneakers which Wendy has been wanting me to do since our last trip to the US, so I finally bit the bulled at got a nice pair of Adidas sneakers which were so much better than the $10 target shoes I had been wearing for so long. We also went to the City Hall which was all lit up in Red and Green lights and got heaps of photos.
We went back to hotel at 8:30pm. An hour later I went to the Bay bridge to take photos and returned just before midnight as it was a slow shoot because of the length of exposures. But these photos should turn out pretty amazing. Despite being very late at night it was very safe with lots of people still walking dogs or jogging along the foreshore, I was able to catch the last cable car of the day back to the hotel with just minutes to spare.


## Thursday 17th 2015  
First stop today is the Ghirardelli's Chocolate Factory which no longer manufactures anything onsite. However there was a man who had worked here since the late 70's and I mentioned that as a boy I was lucky to see the original factory with the huge machinery which is still in my memories, he confirmed where they once stood in relation to the current layout and pointed me to a photo on the wall which was an old B&W photos showing working operating the machines, it felt like I was taken back 35+ years. Funnily I overheard the same man talking to his coworkers explaining where the old machinery was and it's function which led me to believe that most if not all the staff were unaware of the original state of the San Fransisco factory. We bought some chocolate bars and Wendy, Lilia and Jack enjoyed something from the cafe. After seeing Ghirardelli's Chocolate Factory which is only a few blocks from our hotel. We said our goodbyes to San Fran and headed to Arnold, a snow covered town in the hills.

On the way to Arnold we stopped at Knights Bridge for a short break which hosts a covered bridge, very similar to what is common around Amish counties. We walked across as it is closed to traffic, in fact this was only made a designated tourist stop last year. Previously it was an old bridge which allowed traffic but was washed away in a big storm. We stopped by a McDonalds to get a coffee so as I wouldn't get drowsy whilst driving and then it was just a short drive until we started seeing what looked like snow. I thought it wasn't possible as it was a nice warm day where the sun was shining beautifully but it was. The kids were naturally excited and wanted to get out and touch it, specifically Lilia who for her was her first experience of snow so it was very exciting. We arrived at our accommodation at about 3:30pm and the places is a very nice lodge called Timberline Lodge in the style of wooden cabins. We settled in for a little while and then went for a short 3 minute drive to a beautiful frozen lake where we had an hour of fun in the snow. Snow balls fights, half build snow men and watched as rocks got thrown onto the ice and just skidded for ages. We saw a little black squirrel which reminded us of a recent squirrel issue in Yosemite where a few had been discovered carrying the Plague virus. Recently 2 people contracted the disease which meant the wildlife services were actively spraying to protect people from any more issues, they now say it is totally safe and it would still be very rare to actually contract the disease. This is not the same as the Black Plague from the middle ages but a less deadly and treatable disease which in this year alone has hit 46 people.


We had dinner at the local diner and had hamburgers for something different, NOT. Seems hamburger are a staple diet in the US and we have been having our fair share. The meal was nice and afterwards we went back to the room and enjoyed the open fire and got an early night.
