---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: USA Day 37
categories: ['travel']
tags: [ 'USA_2016_diary']
---
## Saturday 16th 2016  

We are going to Flagstaff today and hope to be on the road by 7:30am, failed. I was up at 6am and waited until 7am to wake the other but the kids are slow to get started so we'll just have to do our best to catch up some time today. We have about 4 hours driving to do today.
We drove through the thickest fog we have ever seen, at most there was 30feet visibility as will be seen by looking at some of the photos when I get to upload them so the drive was quite slow at times. We stopped by a historic trading post called Hubbel which has been operating for well over 100 years servicing the local area, not just a trading post but a community in itself as in past times they had an onsite bakery, a machinery shop, sheep sheering facilities and a whole lot more, so much so that you can do a tour of the place. Wendy bought a book this time called Skinwalkers by Tony Hellerman which is a fiction novel but has an element of truth about it and is based on a belief that people can turn themselves into animals or half animals so as to perform magic rituals and cast negative spells on others as an act of jealousy.
TJ our guide from yesterday's Canyon De Chelly actually shared an experience he had when he was 13 years old and has very clear recollection of the occurrence. The story goes like this. One night he and his younger brother and 2 cousins were awoken by their dogs constantly barking, not only barking but they were running back and forth continually like they were corning an animal or something in a very dark corner of an outback house. Nothing could calm the dogs and as they approached the house they could hear faint noises but nothing obvious enough to expose what was hiding.
The dogs did not enter this dark corner but wouldn't stop running and barking so whilst TJ kept an eye on the corner the other returned to get their BB gun so as to shoot whatever was there with the intention of scaring it away. Whilst TJ was watching he happened to notice what appeared to be a very dark figure with with what looked like horns or antlers on the top of its head and it was in the shape of a human form, at this point he became very scared and had a hunch what it might have been. His grandparents had spoken of such occurrences previously hence why he had an idea what was going on. When the others got back they loaded the gun and shot into the dark area but there was not a single sound apart from the dogs still barking, they decided to load a pellet and shoot this as this would be very similar to what would be described as shooting a .22 caliber rifle and it should certainly make the animal go away. They believe that the pellet hit the thing as they saw very briefly something run out of the hut and off into the darkness at which time they further noticed the shape being that of a human animal or otherwise known to Navajos as a skinwalker. The boys were terrified and ran home and raised the alarm of their grandparents who told them to stay inside the locked house whilst they investigated. The thing has since disappeared but it is believed that this skinwalker had been there to inflict a terrible spell of their grandfather as he was well known to have special skills or medicine man capabilities that others were perhaps jealous of. The skinwalker would cast a negative spell to cause TJ's grandfather to become less fortunate so as someone else could benefit from his direct losses, perhaps such as loosing a job so as someone else could gain that exact position. But to this day he strongly believes that the thing was in fact a real skinwalker who had covered himself in animal hide and painted himself black so as he could disappear in the night. If you google skinwalker you will see many images that are obviously made up but amongst them you will see some legitimate ones that certainly give you the chills.

After visiting the Hubbel trading post we continued to visit the worlds largest Meteor Crater which is an hours drive. This was not a tourist attraction in 1981 and even had it been without the internet it would have been hard to know about it. This meteor event occurred 50 thousand years ago and left a crater 60 floors deep and 1 miles diameter. It is massive so much so hat I joked we wouldn't be able to take a photo and fit the whole site in, but I was wrong since most cameras including iPhones have wide angle lenses, so the crater did in fact fit in a single frame. We were not there for very long as we had to get on the road and head to Flagstaff with a short stop along the way at a roadside Denny's for lunch and arrived at Flagstaff at about 3pm or just before. The place is a lot bigger now than I remember and we really hadn't planned anything to do so we went to the tourist center and spoke to a ranger who gave us plenty of information and we took brochures of things to do in the area. We decided to do a short historic walk highlighting the haunted places of the township. This took an hour at most and none of the places were actually open due to it being a Saturday but the walk was nice. Flagstaff was covered in very deep snow and the forecast for yesterday was for snow and due to the amount of people and specifically kids playing on sleds and enjoying the snow it gave us the feeling that this might be their first snowfall of the season as everyone seemed to be enjoying it. For us we took it in our stride as we have encountered enough snow to last us a lifetime. After our walk we got on the road again and drove through to Sedona which is still in Arizona. Some call this place the most beautiful spot in the US and it is known as the new age center of the world due to 4 metaphysical vortexes that exist within close proximity to the town. Vortexes exist also in other places in the world and can be either negative or positive in there influence and abilities to affect things and people. In Sedona they have 4 such vortexes which is the highest concentration known anywhere in the world, other well known places are in California at the Mystery Spot near Santa Cruz where we visited very early in our holiday and the most famous of all is the Bermuda Triangle which is one of the negative vortexes. Sedona's vortexes are known to affect people is a very spiritual way and apparently over 4 million people travel here yearly to personally visit and benefit someway from these vortexes. We had actually not been aware of these places until we we walking around the shops after we had arrived but not yet driven to our RV park, we got taking to a lady in one of the new age shops where Wendy was buying some things and she talked about these places for quite a while, i'm sure if we hadn't stopped her at some point we would have been there for hours. She was very interesting and had some beautiful things in her shop, one such item was a metal drum which made the most amazing melodic sounds we had ever heard, but at $400 each and about 10kg there was no way we could consider buying one despite us all wanting to. We end up taking a map of the local area where she had kindly highlighted spots of interest ( funnily enough she end up highlighting every single path on the entire map – so she could well have saved 30 minutes by just saying to visit everything ) and we decided to grab some dinner before finding our way to the RV park we had pre-booked. After Burger King we drove a few more minutes to the RV park and hooked up, after settling in we all watch a movie called “Now you See Me” which was a great movie about 4 magicians who complete 4 daring and illegal acts such as robbing banks in other countries from there Las Vegas shows. It was a great movie but it was time to get to sleep as I'm going to try an persuade everyone to visit at least one Vortex in town tomorrow.
