---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: USA Day 34
categories: ['travel']
tags: [ 'USA_2016_diary']
---
## Wednesday 13th 2016  

Going to Monument Valley, 4 corners.

We visited along the way an old trading post Wendy had planned along the route and believe it or not we had all been here before although none of us recognised it by the name of the place and we had also visited last time coming from the opposite direction. When we were walking through I noticed the painting on the outside walls and thought to myself it looked very familiar, once inside I knew we had been there before and mentioned it to Wendy who at first thought not, but shortly thereafter she too realised that we had been here. Such an unplanned coincidence. This is a trading post with a 120 year history and mostly still sells to the locals grocery items but also has a vast array or native jewellery,baskets and rugs etc, not to mention a good selection of book. Yes I bought a book on the Route 66 Ghost Towns and decided against a book about the Mysteries of Arizona ( which I would later buy as the next morning we needed to fill with gas and I couldn't help but buy it ). We continued to Monument Valley and at this time we had now covered a lot of driving and I was getting pretty weary, we arrived will after dark and after the Goulding's Campsite/RV place had closed so we just picked a spot to hook up as we had pre registered and paid but there was no one who could allocate a spot. Within 5 minutes of hooking up they had discover this and were on our tails to find out who we were and what we were doing, after a short explanation they were contented and supplied us with restrooms keys and the information we needed to make our stay the best it could. It was about 10pm now which was late but a little too late for a movie in the RV. We all had a very cold nights sleep as the temperature went well below zero and we have a noisy air conditioner which constantly turns on and off throughout the night, it is usually either way too hot or too cold, we have yet to have a good nights sleep in this RV and along with the plumbing issues it has not been the most enjoyable road trip.
