---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: USA Day 33
categories: ['travel']
tags: [ 'USA_2016_diary']
---
## Tuesday 12th 2016  

Up at a bit before 5am so as I could get some photos of the night sky and surrounding rocks as the sky is crystal clear with thousands of stars visible, I took photos for an hour or so and then read my book until everyone else woke up. The water has frozen over night and toilet pipes have also frozen which means we cannot dump the contents, after a few visits to the toilet it was no longer flushing so we had our fingers crossed it would unfreeze by the time we got home – they did.
We had a tour booked for the Lower Antelope Canyon which is only accessible via a Navajo guide booked through the only tour company allowed to take tourists to this spot. It is booked for 10am but we were there a little early and got to go on an earlier tour with our guide who is a Navajo guide named Buddy. There were only 5 other people and it was a very quiet day and Buddy was taking a lot of time to help everyone get good photos and very often was nice enough to actually take photos for people as he knew his stuff, both the place and on how to take photos, so he knew all the vantage spots. The slot canyons are quite incredible and was definitely a highlight of the trip. The tour went for about 1.5 hours after which we had decided to try and go back to the Wave rock. But after having to go back and charge Wendy's phone she expressed the fact that she was still scared about the trip and we end up not going which was very disappointing but it wasn't to be. We end up going to visit the Horseshoe bend at around 1pm when the light was close to it's best position and this time around there were far less people and I could actually get to the edge myself to take photos without worrying about someone knocking me over the edge.
Afterwards we went to Lake Powell tourist center and grabbed a couple of books and a patch and view the dam which is very similar to Hoover Dam if not more impressive. They also had some dinosaur track in front on a massive stone slab. Utah is renown for the history of dinosaurs with many of the worlds dinosaur bones having come from this part of the US. We stopped by another op shop so as to replace on carry on bag and Lilia got a nice pair of ugg boots. We then ventured to the beaches of lake Powell to try for some photos of the cliffs and the reflections of them in the water which I had seen yesterday but the reflections just didn't look anything like I had seen from the road yesterday so we took some picture nonetheless and walked around for a bit.

 We then went to Taco Bell for some dinner and popped into Walmart to buy a few DVD's to watch as the TV reception in the RV park was very poor. We then went to the Antelope Canyon area again to try for some more water/cliff reflection photos. This time they were a lot nicer but still not what I was expecting after yesterdays visions. It was much better than the other spot though and we all had some fun taking picture of the scenery and the kids having some fun. The sun was now setting and the colors were very nice so it was worthwhile. We needed to return the 4 wheel drive so we filled it up with fuel and returned the car and left the operators husband and wife team some little Aussie souvenirs for their young boys. The man as disappointed for us that we never got to go to the wave as he knew just how hard it was to get permits, he mentioned that in all the years he has been here he has never once heard of them being given to someone on the spot, which was only to make me feel a little sad that it never eventuated but I knew it was still the right decision. We then walked back to our RV which was only just 2 minutes away and got in form the freezing cold and settled in for a movie night. First movie was called Maze Runner the Scorch Trials which the kids had been dying to see, but on every plane trip they cost so much money and it was too new for me to download before we left home. We all watched it and enjoyed it very much.

Only  just over a week to go now, but we are all excited at the prospect of returning as we miss out animals and can't wait to get home even though we love it here so much.
