---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: USA Day 29
categories: ['travel']
tags: [ 'USA 2016 diary']
---
## Friday 8th 2016  

I woke at 4:30am so as I could walk the strip to take night photos whilst it was all lit up with neon lights, during the day it is still nice but not near as nice when all lit up. I wandered the length of the strip for 2 hours and returned around 7am to find everyone just waking up so the timing was pretty good. Once everyone was ready we went up and grabbed some breakfast. Walked to New York New York just for something to fill in the time as we were waiting to pick up the RV at 12. Limo to RV, unplanned but kids loved this worked out cheeper than two taxis due to luggage, picked up the RV and were on our way after an hour long introduction and checking process at about 1pm. We first stopped at Walmart to get groceries and then were ready to start the road trip. We head for Zion but not until much later as we first have to stop and Red Rock Canyon inside the Valley of Fire state park. We hit this place about 3:30pm which was perfect timing as the sun was hitting the rocks and made for some perfect photos, well Wendy's photos were perfect and mine were just mediocre but I still keep taking them even though Wendy's are so much better. After 30 minutes or so of us wandering around the canyon we went to the visitor center after quickly paying our park fees, we headed for the visitor center only to find that despite there being about 15 tourists inside the center the actual gift shop had closed about 4:00 so we missed it by 3 minutes and they didn't even consider opening it up for a bit longer, that made me a little upset as the main reason we go there are to buy souvenirs, books, patches etc for our holiday as would the other people but even though there were still staff inside they just told us they were closed full stop. Due to this I felt there was no reason to wait around so we quickly headed on our way. Luckily we did as we hit a few more viewing spots where the sun was setting and made for the most spectacular photos with rich sunset colours all around, the sun only lasted for just a few minutes and we quickly snapped of our photos only to see that within a few minutes the colors changes altogether and became far more ordinary. We were about to cross the state line of Nevada and Arizona and then continue on until we were on Utah in about 10 minutes. We finally saw a road runner and Wendy was just as shocked to see the size and how fast they ran but unfortunately the kids had the rear curtains closed so they did not see it. Once in Utah we stopped at Macca's where we finally able to enjoy a Macca's sundae which we have not seen in any other Macca's yet, they also offered crushed nuts for an added topping, yum. We then continued on our way and after an hour or so I needed to have a break as I was getting too drowsy to drive. We happened upon a small trading post which had an open sign but was all dark inside, no sooner was I walking up to the door to check that another man joined me at the entrance at which time I asked if the store was open, it just so happens he was the owner and was more than happy to open up and get me some coffee for the remainder of the trip, we also bought a CD of indian flute music which was to replace the one we bought on our last trip at Monument Valley but have since lost, this made it a little more worthwhile to the man opening his shop for us. He kindly mentioned that he was renown for making the worlds best Buffalo burgers but I don't think we will be able to make it back despite being something I would be keen to try. We arrived at Zion NP at about 8:30 pm as the time was now an hour later after having passed over the Arizona and Utah border due to the timezone. As we were making our way to our accommodation we started to see snow once again, this was a little uncanny as just moments before I had in my mind wondering whether it ever snowed in Zion. The snow got more and more as we got higher up and started to resemble Yosemite. Wendy checked in and we drove to our cabin and right in front of the little cabin were 2 deers grazing on the snow outside. I was able to get within just a couple of meters to get 2 nice photos but was mindful not to encroach on their territory too much as they are known for being more dangerous to people than bears. This is a true fact as they can attack with their antlers and buck with their rear legs whereas most bears will run away from people expect if the are protecting their young.

The cabin at Zion lodge have an open fire which was just terrific since it was so unexceptionally cold. Funnily enough we had discarded most of our winter clothes since leaving Yosemite as we had not anticipated being near snow again, so it is going to be quite a cold visit. We were all in bed asleep by 9:30pm.
