---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: USA Day 24
categories: ['travel']
tags: [ 'USA 2016 diary']
---
## Sunday 3rd 2016
Today we will visit Brooklyn and go to some flea markets, we had hoped that these were a trash and treasure style but turned out to be more of a trendy “up cycle” market with some price tags hitting the $500 us mark, we didnt buy anything. Then we went to Greenwood Cemetery as it was close by. Jack was amused that we were “visiting dead people now”. Greenwood cemetery was the first rural cemetery in the US started around 1838. Within the first 10 years Greenwood was a very popular tourist attraction which attracted more people than Niagara Falls and as expected contains some of America's most famous people, none of whom I was really familiar with.

We went back to Union Square so as to revisit the Strand Bookstore and I bought a book called Abandoned NYC which shows the decaying side of NY from an urban explorers perspective, something which both Wendy and I have always had an interest in. Lilia bought a journal called wreck this journal which is a new take on a journal and looks quite fun.
We grabbed some Pizza for lunch which was no doubt the best yet.

Back to the hotel for a couple of hours before we head our to see the New York Ballet performing the last show of the Nutcracker which is at 5pm.
The show was pretty awesome despite me nodding off a few times for just a few moments, but both Jack and I enjoyed it just as much as Wendy and Lilia. Their was another example of rudeness by yet again an american white lady ( yes it appears that all the black people from my observation are far more polite and courteous ) who continued to let both her young girls talk and constantly get up and out of their seats all night, it was certainly very distracting but seems that they must have been spoken to by some staff member at the ballet at intermission as they had settled down during Act 2. The ballet was pretty spectacular but their precision was not equal to the performance the other day by the Rockettes and the kids in that show as they were a little out of time and just did not have it quite perfect, but an amazing experience nonetheless. Wendy bought a snow globe and a CD of the music and we naturally got a program for the show. Our seats were spot on as Wendy had booked early and obtained seats on the 2nd mezzanine level directly in front, but for some reason when the lady with her two girls arrived we were asked to move further along which put us out of our perfect positioning, still at the front but off center now, why they do this is beyond me when you pay for premium seating?

We went home and grabbed a couple of slices of Pizza as we were craving it since lunchtime as the Pizza in Union Square was so good but this pizza was nice not didn't compare to lunch.

At about 9pm the children above us were yet again making a racket and after 30 minutes of then making a stampede above us and causing more noise that West 57th Street itself ( it is a very noisy street as it is a main thoroughfare to get to Times Square and to Central Park so it gets a huge amount of traffic with a siren at least every 5 minutes ) but this time I decided to hit on the roof 5 times so as to send a distinct message, had expecting a confrontation but I was so pissed off that I was fired up and ready to lash out at them. But instead they decided to complain to the front desk just as I had to do 3 times perviously about them but the guy who came to them them told them straight away that I was probably reacting to their kids and they would have to contain their kids as it was constantly disturbing other guests, it was nice that they understood my message before even speaking to me. But as expected the hotels security came to see me at which time he explained that he already understood the reason I reacted and had a laugh about it and said not to worry. But seriously how can 1 family be so rude and repeat their rudeness 4 nights running when they have been asked repeatedly by the hotel to refrain from the noise generated by their noisy kids.
