---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: USA Day 22
categories: ['travel']
tags: [ 'USA_2016_diary']
---
## Friday 1st 2016  

5:45am start to get to American Girl store on 5th Ave to purchase a very limited edition doll that would otherwise sellout, they were first in line and whilst waiting met an Aussie lady and her daughter from Stanhope Gardens who worked at Riverstone Police Station, it's a small world after all, they got their doll and clothes. The girls got back at about 10:30am.
I went to Strand books which was at 12th and Broadway in Union Square which is only about 5 train stops from where we are staying and it took about 15 minutes via the subway and spent an hour looking and bought 4 books as I just cannot help myself. Got back 2:15pm as we needed to be at the Top of The Rock for the observation deck visit, the crowds were ridiculous and it took an hour just to get to the top after security checks etc, we took many photos and bought some gifts etc. We then had to race to the Radio City Hall for a pre booked Christmas show which was as crowded to get in but surprisingly pretty empty, we had the best seats in the house on the mezzanine level overlooking a spectacular stage and the show was just awesome. The performers were just perfect in everything even the kids were exact and indicated the dedication they have but you must question how 7-8 year old kids can get that good without some parental influence as this would be a full time job for them, I couldn't help but think they must have been pushed very hard to stay focused.

We squeezed in some dinner from a street vendor which consisted of 4 hotdogs and 4 kebabs at $50 not such a bargain but necessary. The show had finished by 7pm and we walked back the hotel in the freezing cold.
