---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: USA Day 38
categories: ['travel']
tags: [ 'USA_2016_diary']
---
## Sunday 17th 2016  

Up at just before 5:30am to get the blog updated and will wake everyone at around 7:45 so as to get packed up and on the road by 9am. Left Sedona RV park and headed to Bell Rock Vortex. Once we arrived I mentioned to the others that one specific sign of the vortex other than a physical feeling of energy is the Juniper Trees which have twisted base and contorted branches. We saw a few of the twisted trees as we walked towards the vortex center, but the walk turned into a 2 hour hike and by the time we were half way the fun of it was starting to disappear due to the the walk being a little too strenuous for Wendy and the kids. We turned back the way we came after being given some false directions to a quicker route, so another 1 hour walk to get back to the RV. We had a snack and a cuppa before heading off to Montezuma Castle which was only about 30 minutes away. We decided on the drive that Sedona would be one of the spots we plan to revisit for at least a week so as to fully enjoy the hiking and the vortexes as 1 day isn't enough.
Once we arrived at Montezuma Castle we first went to the gift shop to get a few things. The first thing I noticed was that the site had changed from my very faint memories from when we visited in 1981. I remember there being ladders which led up to the 5 story castle however these were no longer here, as well the color of the rocks seemed different but I couldn't put my finger on it, the reason for the different color was that in 1996 they resurfaced the front of the castle. Before we even walked to the site itself I noticed these things from the photos on display so I asked one of the rangers who confirmed that the ladders were actually in use and allowed visitors to enter the cliff dwellings up until 1950 but in the very early 1980's the ladders were actually removed altogether which possibly confirms my memories being correct.
I thoroughly enjoyed it but the kids were a little bored with this, and to be honest I could see why as there really wasn't much to look at. I guess in 1981 since there were far less tourist attractions all the ones we visited were pretty good but now there are just so many things to see the Castle just didn't match up to what other places have to offer. It was more sentimental to me than anything.

We headed to Phoenix now which we would arrive at after dark as the drive was about 2 hours. Once arrived we looked for somewhere to eat which was close but only found a place called Chuck E Cheese, this was a fast food place which combined an arcade for kids, I guess it was more for birthday parties than just eating but there wasn't anything else, the food was very average. We soon after were back on the road to find the RV park and once arrived and hooked up watched a movie called City of Bones which was awesome. It was based on a set of novels I bought Wendy for a present last year so it was good to remind Wendy about the book she never got to finish and has prompted her to pick them up again when we get home. Time for sleep and tomorrow we will head to Palm Springs which is back in California and a 3-4 hour drive.
