---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: USA Day 40
categories: ['travel']
tags: [ 'USA_2016_diary']
---
## Tuesday 19th 2016  

Along drive ahead of us today, about 4 hours heading to Los Angeles to stay at the Hilton at Universal Studios. On the road at exactly 7am after spending the night repacking our bags and watching the kids enjoy the natural hot spa's they had at the hotel which were just outside our room, although the water appeared a little dirty i'm sure they enjoyed it as they didn't want to get out but because of such an early start today they needed as much sleep as possible. First up we needed to find somewhere to eat and also to dump the RV waste, this should in theory be an easy task. We needed to be at LA to return the RV at 11am or we would incur a heavy late fee, furthermore if we returned the RV without empty waste containers then another fee and another one for not filled fuel so there was still plenty to do given the long drive. Even though we had 4 hours we know there will be traffic.
It doesn't take long for the trip to have delays as it took over an hour to find somewhere that would let us use there dump station even though we were prepared to pay a full nights rent just to use it and go. Finally we found an old unused RV site but all the drains used for dumping were padlocked, after eventually finding someone we paid them $10 to let us use it and they unlocked it for us. The problem was the tank wouldn't drain and we flushed it with water and did everything we could and finally it cleared but not perfectly mind you. We quickly got going as it was now just after 8:30 and we still hadn't eaten, so we grabbed some real crappy food from a servo and kept going as fast as we could, so fast I though the RV was going to shake itself apart.
We actually arrived at the new car rental place at about 10:40am which was supposed to be just a few blocks from the RV return place but despite our best efforts it just wasn't going well. Wendy had programmed the RV GPS with the address she was given when we booked over a year ago and she too whilst driving the new rental car had done the same, as we were driving to the RV return I turned off to follow the GPS exactly but Wendy was going straight ahead which I presumed was due to the having a rerouted way to go but figured we would both end up at the same address shortly.
Oh Oh we both got separated as the RV return place had moved some months ago and needless to say I had no way of contacting Wendy who was driving with Lilia. This was not ideal as it was just 3 minutes to 11 and there was no way we would meet our target return time. Anyway after driving aimlessly for 10 minutes looking for Wendy, Jack and I went back to the new car rental and rang Wendy from their phone, we soon after met up just outside and Wendy told us that the RV place had changed address to somewhere on the other side of town which we had drive through some 45 minutes ago. Had we known we would have chosen a car rental place close by to make to car swap as smooth as possible. We now had to navigate more peak hour traffic to get across town, but after ringing the place again and explaining the situation they said not to worry about being late, well that was one thing cleared up.
Getting across town in 2 cars trying to navigate in peak hour and trying to figure those LA freeways is a nightmare and I was leading and took at least 2 wrong turns but we finally made it about 12:15.
Now for the inspection, we failed on 2 points, 1 being the waste wasn't perfectly clean and the fuel wasn't filled. We convinced them that the waste/toilet was proving to be difficult to deal with the whole trip and on many occasions we couldn't even use it, but in fairness we had signed an agreement to return it perfectly clean and the only problem was there was 2 small bits of poo on the lowest sides. They waived the $150 and charged us $20 and asked us to go and fill up. They sent us to the furthest gas station which turned out to be the most expensive fuel we had used in the whole trip which took 2 turns of filling us as the gas stations put a limit on the credit spend for each refueling.
Eventually we got rid of the RV and took of to get lunch in the new car which is a very similar car to the one we had at the start, a white Chevrolet suburban a great big massive SUV.
Our next task was to get to Santa Monica which was theoretically just 30 minutes away, but this took well over an hour due to traffic. We walked down to muscle beach where Lilia had wanted desperately to go, probably because the youtube family she follows religiously had been there at some point, but really not sure why.
It was great fun and we tried all the various exercise equipment and had some fun but we only spent an hour or so as we still needed to get to Universal Studios and it was after 3pm now which meant navigating through the worst of LA traffic. Even though it is again a short trip of less than 30 minutes it too 2.5 hours to get there as the traffic was 7 lanes of bumper to bumper the whole way. It was just horrible and we were tired and hungry when we got there. The hotel is the Hilton which is nice but you get such good service by so many people the tips that are expected are ridiculous, just to help unload the car which I did the vast majority of anyway we needed to tip two men who help wheel the bags on trolley just to reception, from here 2 bell captains would take the trolleys to the rooms whilst Wendy was self parking the car to avoid very heavy valet fees. I had no change so I actually couldn't tip either of them but later one of them seemed to be following us in expectation of his earlier tip. Had we tipped all 4 men it would have cost near $40 before we even stepped foot in the door and if you add the $30 per night for parking well you get the idea.
We have a room on the 4th level overlooking the pool area and it is a nice room but no time to enjoy the view as we need to eat. It has rained heavily here this arfternoon.
We wandered to downtown universal city which is very similar to downtown disney being full of shops including the best brands of clothing and handbags plus the usual tourist traps and lots of food outlets to choose from. One big difference is that there are very few people around which is the total opposite of disney. We wandered around a few shops and had some take away food which was a really nice change of pace to get served without having to line up and being able to pick a seat to sit at easily.

We didn't stay too late and were back in the hotel by 10pm asleep within the next 30 minutes or so.
