---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: USA Day 27
category: travel
tags: [ 'USA 2016 diary']
---
## Wednesday 6th 2016  

Today we leave New York after a very enjoyable experience overall and we would certainly do it again perhaps just not at the same time of year due to the crowds. But I woke at about 4am and not too long after woke everyone else so as we could get ready for our next battle with bags to the airport but things didn't start so well as when I went to get a luggage trolley there were none and the receptionist just said you will just have to wait. This is a hotel of 1200 rooms and there were 6 trolley yesterday which suggested people had just held on to them so as not to miss out on getting on, but with 12 bags and a dodgy ankle it just wasn't possible to carry all the bags down 5 floors. Luckily it wasn't too long and someone returned one which I snapped up straight away.
We were all packed the night before so we just need to be downstairs to catch a shuttle service to the airport but the shuttle didn't go to the airport so we needed to catch a second shuttle service to make it to the actual airport, finally were arrived and checked in our bags and went to the lounge in the departure gate and waited for 2 hours for the plane. Here I was thinking that we might get an empty flight and have some space to relax but that was wishful thinking as that started announcing that they had oversold seats and had 5 passengers too many which meant a full flight and which would result in having to either store our carry on below deck or having to put them overhead far from where we were seated neither was ideal. We actually had seats away from each other, Lilia and I were 1 row in front of Jack and Wendy on the other side of the plane and as expected overhead storage was a struggle but we managed and was soon set to depart on time at 8:09 NY time due to arrive some 5 ½ hours later in Las Vegas. The flight was very bad not for the flight itself just for the level of comfort and service, there were no food nor snacks provided unless you were prepared to get out the credit card similarly if you wanted to watch any of the entertainment options they cost a lot of money. The seats are way too close together and there is hardly any room to even stretch your legs so we all sat cramped in for the duration of the trip without so much as a toilet break. (United) The plane arrive a little early and we then had to battle once again to get our luggage and make it aboard a shuttle service which would take us to where we would rent a car to drive to the hotel, this didn't go very smoothly either but we eventually made it.
We drove to Las Vegas strip where we first off grabbed some much needed food at Denny's after which we would stop by the Las Vegas welcome sign for some photos on the way back to the car Lilia raced ahead and accidentally went to get into the wrong car but their were 2 people in the car and they had a very surprised look on their face when Lilia tried to open their car door, Lilia very quickly realized it was the wrong car but it was a very funny moment.. I was then to be dropped off at the CES convention for a couple of hours whilst the family went shopping for some more shoes.

Wendy was left to check into the hotel Excalibur by herself but naturally she managed perfectly well despite me knowing that it wouldn't be easy. Unfortunately I just wasn't able to walk around the convention as my foot had now swollen up and I had to quit within 10 minutes of starting so I just went and waiting for them to finish shopping and checking in which was an hour and a half but better than walking around. They arrived on time to pick me up and we then went to the hotel to rest for a short while before we went for dinner and to a later show at Aria for Cirque Du Soleil Zarkana at 7pm. Zarkana was the best Cirque Du Soleil show yet but only marginally better than Ka and Kuriosity. They allowed us to take photos without flash and I would have taken over 400 photos of this show as everything was just incredible. We bought a souvenir program and a keyring and made our way home at about 9:30pm.
