---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: USA Day 32
categories: ['travel']
tags: [ 'USA_2016_diary']
---
## Monday 11th 2016  

Monday morning at 7:40am I went to the tourist center to ask about permits to the wave as yesterday we discovered that to get permits for Monday you need to apply on Friday which was very surprising as nowhere on the official website does it mention that. We had obviously planned to stop at Kanab purposely to get permits for Monday but it was merely signposted on the front door of the tourist info place. Anyway I knocked on the door before opening to see where we stand as I doubted that we would have a chance to now see the wave as it is extremely hard to get 1 of the 10 daily permits and now knowing that our option was likely for Tuesday meant that we would have to forget about going as we had other plans booked in for Tuesday. An older man answered the door not looking too happy that I had interrupted him but I kindly mentioned our situation and he basically said it's just too bad, despite me saying that we had come a long way and had been planning this day for 12 months, I was about to leave as we had no chance now but I stood there and waiting for him to say something else and he then said that perhaps if I come back at 8am there may be some permits left over for this morning but I would have to wait and see, why he just didn't let me in as it was now just 10 minutes to 8 anyway. But I ran back to get our money just in case and was back at the door right on 8am before anyone else had arrived. Low and behold he said he had 4 permits available and we could have them. This is unheard of as the demand for permits is so high, but I believe he was doing this as a big favour to us as we have since heard from tour operators that in many years they have never heard of anyone being given tickets on the spot. It was our lucky day, or so we thought.

 We were all very excited despite knowing this to be an arduous 2 hour hike and furthermore the drive in required a 4 wheel drive due to the current conditions for which we didn't have a 4 wheel drive but that didn't stop me wanting to go anyway. We first went to an op shop and shortly after we took to the drive which was about a 40 minute trip to where the 8 mile off road track started. It started our ok as the muddy conditions were still frozen from the night before but about ½ way things started to get a little hairy and the road was very muddy and deep, the RV was still getting through but Wendy was getting very scared that we would get stuck and about 1 miles from the end I decided to try and turn back as I also felt it was just too risky. We managed with great difficulty to do a 9 point turn without going over the side of the narrow road and started the way back, by this time it was getting quite warm and the mud was getting much harder to drive in and we were sliding around a little. We did make it back but I think only just as the RV was covered in mud and the wheels and tires were think with sticky mud. We decided to drive to Page and see if we could hire a 4x4 to drive back. After trying numerous places we finally found someone who would rent one but it was now 3:30pm and had earlier been advised that it was just too late in the day for a tour guide to take us as we would need to be hiking out after dark. This was not an ideal situation but we proceeded to get the car and headed towards the wave, but my intuition got the better of me and I called it quits despite knowing that this was likely my last and only ever chance to see this attraction but I just couldn't risk taking the family in and knowing that it would be dark when we got there it was very possible that the wave rock would have already been in the dark which would defeat the purpose and not be very smart to risk the night time hike as it is a very difficult hike in the day when conditions are good. It just wasn't meant to be so we turned around and went for a late lunch/ early dinner at denny's. We also visited the Horseshoe lookout which is a very famous spot looking down 1000 feet into a canyon which has the colorado river running through it, however it was pretty late and the light wasn't ideal even though this is normally the magic hour for photos the canyon was so deep that the light was already missing the rocks and bottom, plus there were so many people crowed around the only real photo spot and there is no fencing near the edges and I was too nervous for the kids and all the other people who were standing right at the edge of the cliff just to get the photo. I knew that the light wasn't favorable and I didn't even take a single photo as I just couldn't help but be nervous for all the silly people rising their lives to get a photo, way too crowded for my liking and just too dangerous with so many people. We discussed trying to go again tomorrow after a morning tour that we had pre booked for Antelope canyon and decided to wing it even though our permits were explicitly for Monday only but I figured if anyone could talk there way out I could. We settled in for the night and watched some TV.
