---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: USA Day 35
category: travel
tags: [ 'USA 2016 diary']
---
## Thursday 14th 2016  

We woke up and saw that the weather wasn't very good at the whole of Monument Valley was covered in fog, I rang the tour guide company and they suggested that usually the fog will lift by lunch time and it would be ok to continue with our plans. An hour or so later after Wendy had done some washing we got a call back from the tour company and they had since been in tough with other tour guides and based on yesterdays foggy conditions they were honest enough to tell us that it would not be wise to go on the tour as the fog did not lift yesterday and they were places the 4x4 couldn't get too due to deep snow, so fortunately this was not prepaid and we cancelled paying the 600 dollars the tour would have cost. We did an hour or so of driving around the immediate area and stopped by another trading post to pick up a few gifts. We decided to leave Monument Valley a day early and head to what is known as four corners which is a monument where 4 states meet, this being the only location in the USA where 4 states meet. The trip was at least an hours drive, we knew this as we had done the drive yesterday in the afternoon but arrived 3 minutes too late and they had already closed at 5pm. When we got there we were a little surprised as they charge $5 per person to enter, all you get to see is a concrete area where the states meet with a metal plaque and some flags surrounding the area. Normally during summer the place is teaming with Navajo vendors but today there were only about 7 vendors and nothing else so it was overpriced considering the off season. Another fairly mentioned they felt it was too expensive also for the experience but it was something we had planned to do.
We would now head to Canyon De Chelly which was 1.5 hours drive away and we hoped to get there for sunset photos but it wasn't to be. We arrived about 5pm but too late to do anything.

We are staying at Thunderbird Lodge which is actually now known as Sacred Canyon Lodge in the heart of Canyon De Chelly ( pronounced Canyon De Chey ).
