---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: USA Day 28
category: travel
tags: [ 'USA 2016 diary']
---
## Thursday 7th 2016  

CES and shopping, Jack got a nice pair of nike's and Lilia got another American girl doll whilst Wendy bought 2 more suitcases. Picked me up at 12pm and we then went to Carl Jn for lunch, we needed to get Wendy some migraine tablets as she has been having them for 2 days now. (sinus related) We then went to the good will shop. More clothes for Lilia, back to the hotel for a quick rest and to get tickets for the neon museum.
At around 3pm we had booked to go to the neon museum where they have a collection of all the old Las Vegas neon signs from famous and not so famous hotels from the past 50 years, many of which I remember from when we visited in 1980 such as the Sahara Hotel and others. The tour went for about an hour but it was very very cold and that made it a little uncomfortable but nonetheless still enjoyable. The guide was pretty strict about falling behind and kept on asking for the group to stay together as she was paranoid about people touching the old signs and recking them, I just wanted to have photo opportunities without other people in them, she also talked for ages about the history of each signs which I actually enjoyed but by the look of the other people they were not overly impressed nor was Wendy and the kids who seemed to get a little bored.

7pm show Criss Angels magic show, we all enjoyed this, a bit of fun, we had front row seats. He seems a very likeable kind of a guy, came down and shook from row seats hands.   
