---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: USA Day 25
category: travel
tags: [ 'USA 2016 diary']
---
## Monday 4th 2016  

Today we will be visiting the Statue of Liberty and being the return to school/work for the u.s citizens we are hoping for our first non crowded day. Looking forward to it although the temperature has dropped to freezing for the first time this winter which has been most unexpected. It is freezing outside, colder than in the snow as there is a bitter wind slapping you in the face. It is minus 15 c at 5am and it almost hurts. This calls for at least double layers.

The trip to The Statue of Liberty on Bedloe's Island from Battery Park was ok but despite paying extra for priority boarding we didn't get seats due to having to join the end of a very long line but they just said it wasn't busy enough to warrant priority boarding. That seemed silly as we were rushed through extremely strict security which was worse than boarding a plane and were hurried aboard like a pack of sheep. Once inside we tried to find some space under cover but there was none so our only option was to stand outside in the freezing cold, I was ok as I managed to get a good spot for photos outside, and soon enough the kids and Wendy joined me also as they were pushed out from their inside position after getting a coffee and hot chocolate for the trip within the covered space.
We were on the right side of the boat for taking photos as I over heard a guide tell their group which side was most advantageous but despite getting the best of the worst spots people were pushing and treading on Wendy and Jack as Wendy needed to sit down on the floor (rocky boat). Lilia was standing up next to me so we were ok and I was unaware of the people treading on Wendy, had I known I would have said something. During the trip the breeze was pretty extreme and I was just shaking all over but I wasn't sure if it was me shaking due to the temperature or the boat shaking, later Jack mentioned that he saw me shaking so much that I knew then it was me and the effect of the cold. On arrival we headed straight for the walk up the inside of the statue with special tickets to tour the statues crown at the very top, we were sure this would get crowded very soon as there are very limited tickets available for each day and as it happened they were all sold out before we even boarded so many people missed out on this opportunity.
Yet again we needed to go through very strict security where they practically demanded that we loose all of our personal belonging including wallets and purses due to certain restrictions but we were both pretty appalled that they would allow this as it is very important when traveling to always have some formal identification in case of an incident. So I suggested to Wendy to keep her very small handbag with her and we just went forward anyway, but as usual there were people who had also ignored that request but with very large handbags which were very obvious and nothing was said to anyone. Afterwards I believe the reason to be due to the limited amount of space walking up the stairs as the passage way if very narrow, so much so that they would be better of having a person size restriction rather that personal bags etc.

We were in a queue and ahead of us were 354 steps to the crown which demanded a few stops along the way as they were on a circular staircase which was very narrow and steep, this is definitely not for the faint hearted and i'm sure many people would be simply unable to do the walk. It was difficult but it was worth the effort. Once at the top we were able to peer through her crown windows which overlooked the water and city scape as well as the arm and torch. The torch was closed to visitors since a german bombing in 1916 and is accessible only via a steep ladder. Since 9/11 the whole statue was closed and reopened a year later on Independence day with greater restrictions and limiting climbing parties to 10 at a time where previously it was an overcrowded and dangerous event in climbing to the crown with many incidents. So things have improved although it is still very crowded when in the actual crown itself and you need to be lucky to get an unobscured view which I did not get so the photos will be far less than what I had hoped for but the experience was worth it. On the way down we stopped at what is called the pedestal which is the lowest point of observation on the actual statue this position also offers unhindered view 360 degrees all around and is actually much better for photos. We all took some photos and then made our way to the gift shop making some quick purchases so as we could try and get a return trip with an inside seat.


 We went and lined up and within 10 minutes the line was already out of control where people just decided to make their own line and by passed everyone who was doing the right thing, we knew that if we didn't join those people we would be forced to endure the cold outside so I suggested we just follow and try our best to secure a spot as close to the front as possible. Eventually after 15 minutes waiting in the freezing wind we boarded and did manage to find seats for all of us. Wendy battled her way to the cafeteria to buy some much needed food as we had all missed out of breaky and were starving. On the return boat trip we stopped at Ellis Island the original immigration center but we chose not to go on to the island as the crowds were way too much and not to mention the cold so we kept our seats and waited for the final leg back to battery point.
