---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: USA Day 39
categories: ['travel']
tags: [ 'USA_2016_diary']
---
## Monday 18th 2016  

Before we left at about 9am we wanted to look at some thrift shops in Phoenix and there are 2 very good stores, one called Savers which had a 50% off sale and the very well known Goodwill store. There were literally about 20 different thrift shops so we chose just 3 and found so many bargains to fill up our bags, like we hadn't bought enough but you can get brand new shoes for just a few dollars and toys that the kids plus books and so many clothes that in Sydney would cost a fortune.
We had finished op shopping by lunch time and found a restaurant called Chick Fil A which Lilia had been wanting to go to since we arrived, they sell only chicken products but they were nice.
Now it was time to drive for 3 hours to Palm Springs where we have pre paid for accommodation in a motel as we need to be fully packed tonight as tomorrow we return the RV in LA and hire a van to get us through for the next couple of days.

On the way we stopped at a place called Desert Center which we thought perhaps we could get a bite to eat and a coffee, but to our utmost surprise this place was a total ghost town. The outside of the petrol stations had been vandalized and left in ruin. The local cafe looked like if had been left in the exact same state years ago, the surrounding buildings were also abandoned and had some amazing relics hidden inside, such as old trains ( full size steam trains ) and old vintage cars half hidden under covers. The funny thing was that there was still an active building which was the old post office where people were actually arriving to check their mail box, but other than this there was no life around here. It was about 6pm when we finally got to our accommodation but for some reason the hotel could't find our booking despite us having fully paid for it. There was no choice but to find alternative hotels as the hotel management had no record and wouldn't take our payment records as proof of payment and they wouldn't give us a room without an aditional payment. Wendy was obviously upset about this as it had been a very long day by now, but we had no choice and found a much better place not too far away which was nice and had hot spa's for the kids to enjoy. Wendy slaved over the bags and repacked for hours and finally about 10:30pm we were ready for sleep, well Wendy was anyway. It will be an early start tomorrow leaving at 7am to get to LA by 11 to return the RV. Oh we also needed to get the RV washed today as it had remnants of our drive to wave rock still all over and we were not supposed to take it off road so we needed to make sure all mud was removed before handing it back. We found a car wash place that did the washing but they wanted to charge $100, that was too much so we agreed with them to just clean the wheels and underbody which they did very well for just $50 plus tip.
