---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: USA Day 23
category: travel
tags: [ 'USA 2016 diary']
---
## Saturday 2nd 2016


Today I was up at 7am and raced to the Rockerfella center for a 7am opening as this was part of our package but to no surprise really they didn't even open until 8am. I met up with a UK couple and we waited and talked for an hour. But despite being first in line we all ended up way back in the queue to actually enter and due to me having to be back by 8:30am I raced up to the very top level took about 50 photos and raced back down. I then decided to ask why we had been told to be here for 7am despite the opening of 8am, they were good enough to refund all 4 tickets and then give me another 4 complimentary tickets valid for 12 months, now wether we get to use them or not doesn't really matter as it was appreciated none the less. I will try to re visit at night time for night shots as the view changes throughout the day due to lighting.

We will now visit the public library and then see the Grand Central Station underground tour which we wanted to do last time but it was closed. The roosevelt bridge cable car visit at 7pm was a short walk to a tram which travelled the length of the bridge, we went half way to roosevelt island where you get a great view of New York cityscape, great for photos as well there was an abandoned Smallpox hospital which was decommissioned in the 1950's, this is one of about 10 abandoned hospitals in NY and was a pretty awesome site. The tramway was very crowded as it is used by commuters to cross the water, however there were a few tourists, we were lucky enough to actually get a seat as it was full to capacity.

I have also been researching all the other urban abandonments in NY such as many closed and unused railway stations and platforms, an old castle, one of many along the hudson river. All of which you can still get to as documented by various urban explorer groups. I would love to find a book on these places and if not then one day come back to do a photo assignment on them all. Many more have been converted into a usable structure of demolished due to instability. The only disappointing moment was that the guests above us seem to have no respect or consideration for others as they let their kids run wild in the apartment above us which causes the noise of them jumping to echo right throughout our apartment and quite often I can feel the vibration which makes it incredibly hard to rest let alone sleep. I have complained 3 times now to the hotel which I think the last time the actually acted on, i resisted for as long as possible but the noise is just unbearable.
