---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: USA Day 30
categories: ['travel']
tags: [ 'USA_2016_diary']
---
## Saturday 9th 2016 - To edit  

I woke up way too early again and went outside for a few photos but the cold was unbearable without any warm clothes so I soon enough came back in and sat by the fire reading until about 8am everyone started to wake up. We got ready and gathered as much warm clothing as possible before heading to the hotels restaurant for breakfast. Breaky was nice, Wendy had pancakes, I had a hot meal with eggs, bacon, sausages and hash browns whilst Jack had a scrambled egg, Lilia wasn't hungry yet and decided to wait and have breaky in the RV. We were on the road ready for our first outing by 9am and headed to a place called the narrows which is a famous tourist attraction in Zion National Park. I had read earlier that it is likely that many of the walking trails might be closed due to ice. When we arrived there were only about 8 cars so based on what we have been used to not busy at all. We started the walk only to find that within about 10 minutes the trail was closed despite no prior warning at the trail entrance, but it was very slippery due to ice and was bordering on the side of impassable. We saw people who had continued over the closed sign so naturally I encouraged everyone to join me in continuing the walk, as it turned out the remainder of the path was much easier except for a few parts which were quite risky but only risk was falling on your bum. We made it right to the end of the designated trail but couldn't get all the way to the perfect photos spots due to having to cross water, we just didn't have the right clothing for such an expedition. It was very worthwhile as we were there at just the time the sun started to hit the surrounding cliff faces which made them light up. Zion is another incredible location which is reminiscent of Yosemite, this time though the cliff were not covered in fog which made for some excellent photo opportunities. The crowds started to gather by 11:30 as were were exiting the path so the timing was pretty good. We then headed to the tourist center about 15 minutes away as to book for a special permit to enter a tunnel on exiting Zion, if you have a vehicle over 15 feet long then you need to have special pre arranged access which costs $15. This will allow us to have a ranger onsite when we cross to close the other side of the road and it is not wide enough for an RV and other cars at the same time.

We then headed back to the cabin after another quick stop and were preparing for an afternoon hike around 3pm to the Emerald Pools, it is nearing sunset within an hour os so and this is the best time for photos. We walked to the lower emerald pools only to find that the trail was closed due to ice, Lilia and I went over the sign but it was way to slippery and dangerous to continue. Jack had a fall before the end of the trail and was not very comfortable to continue hiking so Wendy and Jack headed back to the hotel room whilst Lilia and I continued on to do another hike but shortly realized that it was far to muddy and we would get our shoes dirty so we waited to take a few photos and then headed back to join Wendy and Jack. We then went to have dinner at the local pub. Lilia had fish'n'chips, Jack and Wendy had a burger and I had a very expensive steak. After dinner we went back to the hotel room and settled in for the night.  
