---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: USA Day 26
category: travel
tags: [ 'USA 2016 diary']
---
## Tuesday 5th 2016  

Today we are going to visit the museum of natural history which we missed out on a few days ago due to crowds, today was much better in this regard as were were able to walk straight in and purchase tickets. The asked price was around $70 for all of us which we were happy to pay but it is actually based on a donation system where they ask you how much you want to pay, naturally we paid the full price but I am sure people would pay much lower prices as they can, but realistically it is cheap for what they offer. First we stood in the hall way containing the only dinosaur display where there are 3 full size replicas one being a full size arracosaur on it's hind legs standing upright in a position of defense protecting it's young from a predator, this is the only recognized display where they dinosaur is in this state of defense and give a new perspective to the size. The baby dinosaur was behind it's mother whist in front was the attacking dinosaur. Without my special fisheye lens I would have had no chance in capturing the whole shot as it covers a huge area but this lens made it possible so much so that I believe my photo would easily compare to the official photo in the guide book I bought. There was so much to see and do but we only had about 2 hours as we were on a strict timeframe today knowing that we will be leaving New York city today at 2pm to go to the Holiday Inn at newark airport ready for a very early departure to Las Vegas tomorrow.

The kids and Wendy were not as enthusiastic as I was and much of the time just sat and waited for me to take photos although they did enjoy certain displays but I could have spent the whole day absorbing so much information as well as taking photos of every single exhibit but I make my visit as quick as possible taking photos of everything I saw very quickly knowing that I could review my photos and the information within the book that I had bought from an early visit to the gift shop. The only section we didn't visit was the space and earth exhibition but as we had previously been to Cape Cod Kennedy Space Center I figured that I was only missing out on parts that I was already familiar with so I was happy making the complete rounds in less than 2 hours.

We had a few shop stop to do before we needed to be back at the hotel for a taxi pickup at 2pm.
We needed to stop by the toy shop where Jack and Lilia both got a rare lego set just to make sure he wasn't missing out on another hard to get set but he actually passed on this. Lilia bought another pair of Nike shoes which were half price and we then raced back to the hotel. Things were hard going for me as I have somehow managed to do something to my ankle and it has been very hard to walk on and I am slowing everyone down due to my very noticeable limp and Wendy has pain in her knees which is causing her some grief too.

We made it with no time to spare as we were stuffing down some much needed lunch when the taxi arrived so the kids had to take their food with them and eat it whilst driving to the next hotel.
The taxi driver spoke very little english and couldn't navigate and we knew that we were in for trouble when he asked Wendy to enter into his GPS the destination but the device was in Spanish so she wasn't able to but fortunately she had her google maps ready and was able to direct him once she realize he was just driving around looking for the place. Wendy was able to direct him to our hotel and we unpacked our 12 bags, but for $120 you would have expected a little more, but you can bet that the Salisbury was taking a massive commission on this service as the trip to our hotel the first time was just $60 including tips. It wasn't as cold in New Jersey as it was in the city and the sun was shining but still cold. We all rested in the hotel until dinner time which we chose to dine in the only place within an hour of our location, but the hotel restaurant was very nice and I had a nice Alfredo pasta dish whitest Wendy chose Nachos, Jack had a hamburger and Lilia chose Mac'n'Cheese which has since become her favorite meal. We were flying out tomorrow at 8am which meant we had to be up at 4:30am to get organized and make the multiple shuttle buses to the airport and with 12 bags it is no easy task. But we had planned to get a wake up call as well had 3 different alarms set to ensure we didn't sleep in.
