---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: USA Day 36
categories: ['travel']
tags: [ 'USA 2016 diary']
---
## Friday 15th 2016  

We will tour Canyon De Chelly today both self drive and with a Navajo tour guide which will start at 1pm and go for 3 hours. It is predicted to snow today but we are hopeful that it won't disrupt our visit. We are in a very beautiful place and are so looking forward to todays tour as we have had some disappointments over the last few days due to weather but fingers are crossed. I get up at 5:30 and make my coffee and go for a short stroll. I met a Navajo man called Pete something who is a local artist and we have a chat for about 10 minutes, it was freezing cold and I was shivering the whole time but it was nice to talk to him. He is also aware of the forecasted snow but suggested due to the current elevation it will be hardly noticeable.
It's still too early to wake the others so I grab a much wanted hot bath and read one of my new books, this book is about the mysterious things that have occurred within the state of Arizona. The stories are all true, or so they claim anyway, and each story comes with explicit directions to go and visit the sights being talked about. Well I can't help but think this is one of the best books I have bought. I am about ¼ of the way through when I stop so as to get ready and get everyone else started but it is hard to put this book down.
Everyone else is up shortly thereafter and we wait until about 9am to get started as I wanted to visit the local trading post which is located on site at the Sacred Canton Lodge and opens at 9am. I naturally bought a couple of books, one being the archeological sites within Arizona and another small book specifically on Canyon De Chelly. There was a 3rd book which sparked my interest which was all about skin walkers and other ghostly stories but I was a little skeptical about how much truth there was so resisted.
Shortly we were on our way to get started on our self drive up along the north rim of the canyon where there are numerous lookouts which give spectacular views of the canyon and valley below. We had earmarked about 3 or 4 lookouts and the first one is called Spider rock lookout. We arrived with just the 1 other RV parked who shortly drove off so this gave us the entire walk to ourselves, that made is much nicer than having crowds to hinder the views and allowed us to take our time. At the end of a small trail we are overlooking a 700 foot drop peering out to the canyon floor where 2 large rock spires jolt upward some 500 feet standing alone and seemingly with a presence of their own. Many of the locations have some spiritual meaning to the local navajo people and to the people before them also as the history goes back some 100 years. Once we have taken some photos and done the required Koowiis we wandered slowly back and decided to have a little breakfast. Whilst we were preparing we saw that it was starting to snow, only lightly so there was no concern at all at this point. After we had finished breaky and a cup of tea and coffee we headed towards our next lookout, as we were driving the snow started to get a lot heavier and we started to question whether it would disrupt the views. The next stop is called sliding house lookout which overlooks 2 different views of some cliff dwellings although a difficult view as we are quite far away. The snow started to pick up by this time and we could see the snow rolling in from 1 side of the canyon, we thought it was mist or rain but within less than a minute we were literally getting smashed by a blizzard like snow storm. None of us were dressed properly for this and we all felt the snow hit us hard but it was still a little fun to experience this. It certainly did stop the view almost immediately so we were fortunate to be there as it started because we still got photos and some video before it hit. As we made our way back we could see the ground starting to cover over with snow it was that heavy. We started to drive onward but the snow picked up even more and was now very heavy and you couldn't see any of the canyon now but we pulled in to see one final lookout called white house view but there was no point to this as it was all white everywhere you looked.
We started to question what our afternoon tour was going to be like as we had high expectation for taking photos etc so we pulled into the local tourist center and called our tour company to confirm, they had no concerns about the tour so we decided to continue with our plans despite the heavy snow. I bought a patch but not specific to Canyon De Chelly and we were heading back to our accommodation where we will get picked up at 1pm, time for some lunch and wait for a little while. This is where we saw an old Indian lady decide to take a whizzer right next to our van whilst we were parked outside the hotel reception area, we were just so shocked. Our guide showed up on time and his name was TJ Hunter. He was 31 and had been married for 10 years with 3 kids each having a Navajo name all of which I forget but they were nice names like pretty beautiful or something. He seemed to be very well educated on navajo history having grown up in the canyon himself and throughout the tour didn't stop taking about Navajo stories and the like. We got to see up close the cliff dwelling s and pictographs etc, but we saw only about 10 of the known 800 or so.
Whilst looking at some of the petroglphys I was unlucky enough to step onto a snowy ice area and my foot broke through and went straight into the icy waters below, my whole foot was now covered in icy cold muddy water and remained that way for the whole tour and it was so cold that my foot was practically frozen solid. The snow was now very light but the temperature would have been below freezing.
This place has the highest density of cliff dwelling anywhere in the states and is really quite amazing. Many of the cliff dwelling are still completely intact but others have been ruined throughout the years by looters going back to the early 1800's when the first europeans started to infringe of the indian territory.
At another point TJ demonstrated how the early Navajo would use hand made spears without using a bow and arrow and he was just about to start his demo when another tour operator drove into this path and disrupted the show, he parked his 4x4 right in the way of where we were going to be taking photos and then his 2 party team got out and decided to watch, that would have been ok but one of them came and stood right in front of me and stopped me being able to view, I kindly asked him to move and he then went and stood in front of Wendy but not enough to obscure hew view fortunately. But yet again you need to question their rudeness to include themselves in our tour and to obstruct our view when they were not even part of the tour nor invited. But anyway the demonstration was very entertaining and was only a quick stop before we headed further into the canyon.
TJ was bought up by his grandmother and grandfather who had passed down to him local traditions and Navajo ways of life, he is still quite spiritual and knows an awful lot of interesting traditional Navajo ways including stories of skin walkers, herbal plants and stories of medicine men who to this day still exist and practice mostly for the elders in the community. Our tour concluded at 3pm but not after a little bit of excitement due to one other tour guide's 4x4 getting stuck in the icy river we we all having to drive over. This meant that our guide needed to stop and go through the icy path that he couldn't get through so as there was a chance he could then winch the other car through. We made it ok but it was a bit scary as we dipped into the ice front first and were at quite an angle but he made it due to having a high clearance whereas the other car didn't make it due to be less cleared. After the winch failed to get the other car out of the icy ditch he had no option but to retrace his path and take another exit route. He eventually made it. Upon returning to the drop off we gave TJ and pretty big tip and a few souvenirs for his 3 kids.

We drove to burger king for some dinner and had planned to go through to flagstaff tonight but our plans changed as we needed to get gas for the RV otherwise we couldn't run the generator for the night as it was too low and being so cold we were not prepared to risk being stuck in the cold without heating. We did end up getting gas but our stops along the way to flagstaff were not fitting in with time so we decided to stay the night at Canyon De Chelly and get an early start tomorrow instead. We stayed at the Holiday Inn for a change as the beds in Sacred Canyon Lodge were a bit iffy and we figured this might be a better option. We heard over Facebook tonight that at home they suffered a massive storm primarily around Schofields and Quakers Hill but Riverstone did cop it too. Turns out many trees were down and blocking roads etc, but Riverstone and specifically our house didn't get into too much trouble with just a small amount of branches coming down.
